Now that we worked on the shopping list, we could move on to the recipes but that's something I want
to save for later,
for the moment, let's instead move on to the auth section here and let's implement NgRx there as well.
Now for this, I'll add a new folder in the auth folder and I'll name it store and just as with the shopping
list, I want to create a reducer and a file with the relevant actions for authenticating.
Now for authentication, you will also see that of course we interact with the web, here in the auth service
we send requests for signing users up and signing users in and that is something I'll also take care
about later because we can't send these requests from inside the reducer
but for the moment, we'll leave them in the service and we'll step-by-step moved them into the NgRx world
as well.
So back to the store then, let's add an auth.reducer.ts file and in that auth reducer file, what
do we need to export?
Well we definitely need our reducer function right
because keep in mind, a reducer is a function in the end.
So here, I have my authReducer function
and this again receives a state and an action.
Now for the moment, I'll just return state in there
but of course we'll soon also add a switch case statement in there.
Now this auth state of course will have some initial state,
so again I'll create an initial state object here and now let's have a look at what our authentication
state actually is. At the moment, we're managing it in auth service and if we take a closer look, in the
end it's just this user object here which we manage through behavior subject. The token expiration timer,
that is only required for our auto logout timer and we'll see how we handle this later
but it's not a core part of our auth state, we never use that from outside of the service and we can't
because it's a private property,
so the only state that we use is in other parts of the app is our user object here and therefore,
that has to be part of my initial state.
I have a user and initially, that user will be null. Now just as with the shopping list reducer, here
I want to define an interface that describes my state which will help us with injecting a store where
we want to access that user or that authentication state slice and therefore, let's export an interface
which we can also name state, we can name it state here even though I also named it state in the shopping
list reducer because these are two different files and therefore, these names don't clash
and there, I describe that my state for the auth part of my store will have the user key and that type
of that is user, using my user model for which you of course have to add an import therefore.
Now the initial state obviously is of type state,
so let's add this type assignment
and here, we want to initialize our state by setting it equal to the initial state or that should be
our default value for state to be precise in case we don't have a state yet,
so basically for when this store is created.
OK,
so now we have that very basic auth reducer setup,
of course we got no logic to set or remove our user here,
so that's something we'll have to work on. Before we continue working on that however, let's add our auth
state slice,
so this auth reducer at the state it reduces to our app module,
so there to the store module. Here to forRoot,
I'll add auth and you can name this however you want, I'll name it auth because it is about the auth part
of my application and there, I want to point at my auth reducer. So I can just call or set this equal
to auth reducer and of course add an import importing auth reducers from the auth folder store folder
and there, the auth reducer file.
Now we initialize our global store, our @ngrx/store and always keep in mind even if we have different
parts of the app where we manage the state with different reducers, we always have just one global
store and we're setting up this global store here by pointing at all these different parts that make
up the overall store.
So now we registered the auth reducer here which is a great first step but now I also want to make
one other adjustment.
If we take a look at the shopping list reducer, there we of course define how the state should look
like
for this shopping list part of the application and we also define how our application state should
look like, with this AppState interface here.
Now to be honest, that doesn't really belong into the shopping list reducer file because the AppState
is more than just a shopping list reducer. Now previously before we added the auth reducer,
we had only the shopping list but now we have the shopping list and the auth part and therefore, it's
time for a new global store folder which sits next to my shopping list recipes and so on folders.
So it's in the root app folder and in that store folder,
I want to add an app.reducer.ts file and the idea here is that it merges all my other
reducers together.
So in this app reducer file here, I want to import everything as from shopping list,
following that naming connection, from my
shopping list folder, there from the store and there from the shopping list reducer and do just the
same as from auth by importing from the auth folder and there, from store and the auth reducer.
Now why?
First of all because here I now want to create my interface, AppState, which now has that shopping list
key where I refer to from shopping list and point at my state not the AppState,
I will actually remove that AppState interface here from the shopping list reducer because again, this
is the wrong place for defining a global application-wide state,
it should only define the state for this part of the global state,
so for the shopping list part and then we'll have to fix some of the other imports and other files
but for now let's go back to the app reducer because there besides my shopping list slice,
I also will add auth and point at from auth state here.
So now I am importing these sub states of parts of my global store, so of the shopping list and
of the auth state and I'll import these, so of the shopping list and the auth part of my NgRx state
and I merged them together into one AppState interface.
And of course it's not just about merging these state definitions,
I also want to create a new constant, reducers or appReducer maybe is a better name and that will
be of type ActionReducerMap and ActionReducerMap is something you have to import from NgRx
store.
Now this type might be familiar to you because here in the app module, forRoot takes such an action
reducer map,
in the end what I create here is such an ActionReducerMap and now instead of dynamically creating
it in app module, I want to do that here in the app reducer simply to structure this in a bit cleaner
way, this so to say now is the one state, the one store we have in the entire app and we create it by
bringing together all these individual slices we have that make up this global state.
Previously, we did this here in app module but now since I also want to add my own type definition, my
own interface for that, I rather do it in a separate file. So appReducer is of type
ActionReducerMap and therefore it is basically a Javascript object. Now important,
this is a generic type and we need to define which kind of overall state will be the result of that
reducer map and that will be my AppState of course,
so reducer map will have a shopping list and an auth key and that's therefore what we have to add here,
shopping list
and here we point at from shopping list
and then at the shopping list reducer and for auth, we do the same,
we point at from auth and then at the auth reducer.
And now with this, we have our app reducer here in the app reducer file and in app module,
we now no longer create this object on the fly so to say, instead we can now get rid of these two imports.
So at the shopping list and at the auth reducer imports and instead, import everything as
from app or from root or however you want to call it, from the store folder and there, from the app reducer
and here to forRoot, we can now just pass from app, app reducer and that is now our merged reducer map. Might
seem a bit redundant but now it's a really cleaner setup.
Now what does this mean for the different parts of the app where we injected a store and where we pointed
at the AppState that previously was exported from that shopping list file? Well for example here,
in the shopping list component, instead of using from shopping list AppState,
I now want to remove that import and instead import everything as from app from my root store,
so in that root store folder from the app reducer and then we simply replace from shopping list with
from app and this will do the trick because this now gives us access to our overall state where we still
have a shopping list slice
but as you see, if you enter just quotes here, TypeScript should kick in and your IDE and give you auto
completion that you can either access the auth or the shopping list part because now we have two state
slices in our overall state, not just one. And therefore it's the same in the shopping-edit component,
we can get rid of the from shopping list import and instead import everything as from app from that
root store and there the app reducer and then instead of using from shopping list, we use from app,
AppState and it's of course the same for the recipe service. There if we remove from the shopping list,
we import everything as from app from our store folder here, from the app reducer and then again for
assigning this generic type, we use fromApp.AppState
and with that everything should compile and everything should still work as it did before.
Let's quickly check this, let's fetch recipes and add those ingredients to the shopping list,
that all works
but now with this slightly different setup.
So that was just some restructuring to have a cleaner code structure and have a store that works fine
with multiple state slices because now we have the shopping list and the auth part. With that, let's continue
working on that auth part though.